Update docs for cgroupv2 graduation to GA in 1.25 (#35180)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups.md

---
title: About cgroup v2
content_type: concept
weight: 50
---

<!-- overview -->

On Linux, {{< glossary_tooltip text="control groups" term_id="cgroup" >}}
constrain resources that are allocated to processes.

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} and the
underlying container runtime need to interface with cgroups to enforce

> [resource mangement for pods and
> containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) which

Reviewer: It is always desirable to keep links on the same line. e.g.

```suggestion
[resource mangement for pods and containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) which
```

Author: Done

> includes cpu/memory requests and limits for containerized workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cpu/memory limits for containerized workloads.
```

Author: this is not completely accurate, limits are not only used in cgroups, requests are as well (e.g. cpu requests)

> There are two versions of cgroups in Linux: cgroupv1 and cgroup v2. cgroup v2 is

Reviewer: please stick to either "cgroup v2" or "cgroupv2".

Author: Done

* Container runtime supports cgroup v2. For example:
  * [containerd](https://containerd.io/) v1.4 and later
  * [cri-o](https://cri-o.io/) v1.20 and later
* The kubelet and the container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver)

### Linux Distribution cgroup v2 support

For a list of Linux distributions that use cgroup v2, refer to the [cgroup v2 documentation](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/docs/cgroup-v2.md)

<!-- the list should be kept in sync with https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/docs/cgroup-v2.md -->
* Container Optimized OS (since M97)
* Ubuntu (since 21.10, 22.04+ recommended)
* Debian GNU/Linux (since Debian 11 buster)
* Fedora (since 31)
* Arch Linux (since April 2021)
* RHEL and RHEL-like distributions (since 9)

To check if your distribution is using cgroup v2, refer to your distribution's
documentation or follow the instructions in [Identify the cgroup version on Linux nodes](#check-cgroup-version).

You can also enable cgroup v2 manually on your Linux distribution by modifying
the kernel boot arguments in the GRUB command line, and setting

> `systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1`. However, the recommended approach is to use a

Reviewer: It is unclear to me where to set the `systemd.xxx` argument.

Author: Updated this with some more details.

distribution that enables cgroup v2 by default.

### Migrating to cgroup v2 {#migrating-cgroupv2}

To migrate to cgroup v2, ensure that you meet the [requirements](#requirements), then upgrade
to a kernel version that enables cgroup v2 by default.

The kubelet automatically detects that the OS is running on cgroup v2 and
performs accordingly with no additional configuration required.

There should not be any noticeable difference in the user experience when
switching to cgroup v2, unless users are accessing the cgroup file system
directly, either on the node or from within the containers.

cgroup v2 uses a different API than cgroup v1, so if there are any
applications that directly access the cgroup file system, they need to be
updated to newer versions that support cgroup v2. For example:

* Some third-party monitoring and security agents may depend on the cgroup filesystem.
 Update these agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
* If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone

>  DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to (v0.43.0 or later)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to v0.43.0 or later.
```

* If you use JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15

>  and later, which [fully support
>  cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and later, which [fully support cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305)
```

Author: Done

---
title: About cgroup v2
content_type: concept
weight: 50
---

<!-- overview -->

On Linux, {{< glossary_tooltip text="control groups" term_id="cgroup" >}}
constrain resources that are allocated to processes.

The {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} and the
underlying container runtime need to interface with cgroups to enforce
[resource mangement for pods and
containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) which
includes cpu/memory requests and limits for containerized workloads.

There are two versions of cgroups in Linux: cgroupv1 and cgroup v2. cgroup v2 is
the new generation of the `cgroup` API.

<!-- body -->

## What is cgroup v2? {#cgroup-v2}
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="stable" >}}

> Cgroup v2 is the next version of the Linux `cgroup` API. cgroup v2 provides a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 is the next version of the Linux `cgroup` API. cgroup v2 provides a
```

unified control system with enhanced resource management
capabilities.

cgroup v2 offers several improvements over cgroup v1, such as the following:

- Single unified hierarchy design in API
- Safer sub-tree delegation to containers
- Newer features like [Pressure Stall Information](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/accounting/psi.html)

> - Enhanced Resource allocation management and isolation across multiple resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enhanced resource allocation management and isolation across multiple resources
```

>   - Unified accounting for different types of memory allocations (network memory, kernel memory, etc)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Unified accountability for different types of memory allocations (network memory, kernel memory, etc)
```
I feel like accountability might make the intent clearer?

Author: (see below comment).

Reviewer 2: SGTM

>   - Accounting for non-immediate resource changes such as page cache write backs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Accountability for non-immediate resource changes such as page cache write backs
```
If you disagree and think that accounting makes more sense, feel free to ignore

Author: I think accounting is the term usually used to describe this, e.g. from the man pages:

>  At each level of
       the hierarchy, attributes (e.g., limits) can be defined.  The
       limits, control, and **accounting** provided by cgroups generally
       have effect throughout the subhierarchy underneath the cgroup
       where the attributes are defined. 

Will leave it as is to match that.

Reviewer 2: SGTM

Some Kubernetes features exclusively use cgroup v2 for enhanced resource
management and isolation. For example, the
[MemoryQoS](/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/) feature improves memory QoS
and relies on cgroup v2 primitives.

## Using cgroup v2 {#using-cgroupv2}

The recommended way to use cgroup v2 is to use a Linux distribution that
enables and uses cgroup v2 by default.

To check if your distribution uses cgroup v2, refer to [Identify cgroup version on Linux nodes](#check-cgroup-version).

> ### Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Requirements

```

cgroup v2 has the following requirements:

* OS distribution enables cgroup v2
* Linux Kernel version is 5.8 or later
* Container runtime supports cgroup v2. For example:
  * [containerd](https://containerd.io/) v1.4 and later
  * [cri-o](https://cri-o.io/) v1.20 and later
* The kubelet and the container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver)

### Linux Distribution cgroup v2 support

Many Linux Distributions have already switched over to use cgroupv2 by default, for example:

<!-- the list should be kept in sync with https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/docs/cgroup-v2.md -->
* Container Optimized OS (since M97)
* Ubuntu (since 21.10, 22.04+ recommended)
* Debian GNU/Linux (since Debian 11 buster)
* Fedora (since 31)
* Arch Linux (since April 2021)
* RHEL and RHEL-like distributions (since 9)

To check if your distribution is using cgroup v2, refer to your distribution's

> documentation or follow the steps [below](#check-cgroup-version) to verify the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
documentation or follow the instructions in [Identify the cgroup version on Linux nodes](#check-cgroup-version).
```

> configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

You can also enable cgroup v2 manually on your Linux distribution by modifying
the kernel boot arguments in the GRUB command line, and setting
`systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1`. However, the recommended approach is to use a
distribution that enables cgroup v2 by default.

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: extra empty line

Author: Removed

### Migrating to cgroup v2 {#migrating-cgroupv2}

To migrate to cgroup v2, ensure that you meet the [requirements](#requirements), then upgrade
to a kernel version that enables cgroup v2 by default.

The kubelet automatically detects that the OS is running on cgroup v2 and
performs accordingly with no additional configuration required.

There should not be any noticeable difference in the user experience when
switching to cgroup v2, unless users are accessing the cgroup file system
directly, either on the node or from within the containers.

> cgroup v2 uses a different API than cgroup V1, so if there are any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 uses a different API than cgroup v1, so if there are any
```

applications that directly access the cgroup file system, they need to be
updated to newer versions that support cgroup v2. For example:

* Some third-party monitoring and security agents may depend on the cgroup filesystem.
 Update these agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
* If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone
 DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to (v0.43.0 or later)
* If you use JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15
 and later, which [fully support
 cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305)

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: extra line

Author: Removed

content_type: concept
weight: 50
---

<!-- overview -->

On Linux, {{< glossary_tooltip text="control groups" term_id="cgroup" >}}
are used to constrain resources that are allocated to processes.

{{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} and the
underlying container runtime need to interface with control groups to enforce
[resource mangement for pods and
containers](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) and set
resources such as cpu/memory requests and limits.

There are two versions of cgroups in linux: cgroupv1 and cgroupv2. Cgroupv2 is
the new generation of the cgroup API.

<!-- body -->

## Cgroup version 2 {#cgroup-v2}
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="stable" >}}

Cgroup v2 is the next version of the cgroup Linux API. Cgroup v2 provides a
unified control system, which provides enhanced resource management
capabilities.

The new version offers several improvements over cgroup v1, some of these improvements are:

- cleaner and easier to use API with a unified hierarchy
- safe sub-tree delegation to containers
- newer features like Pressure Stall Information
- enhanced accounting and isolation across multiple resources

>   - accounting for network memory

Reviewer 2: Single bullet looks odd. Add more or remove this line

Author: Added a few more :)

> Some kubernetes features exclusively rely on on cgroupv2 for enhanced resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some Kubernetes features exclusively use cgroup v2 for enhanced resource
```

management and isolation. For example, the
[MemoryQoS](/blog/2021/11/26/qos-memory-resources/) feature improves memory QoS

> and relies on cgroupv2 primitives. New upcoming resource management
> capabilities in kubelet will depend on cgroupv2 as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and relies on cgroup v2 primitives.
```
Don't talk about future functionality

Author: Removed

> ## Using cgroupv2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using cgroup v2 {#using-cgroupv2}
```

> To use cgroupv2, it is recommended to use a Linux distribution which enables
> cgroupv2 out of the box. Most new modern linux distributions have switched over
> to cgroupv2 by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recommended way to use cgroup v2 is to use a Linux distribution that
enables and uses cgroup v2 by default.
```

> To check if your distribution is using cgroupv2, follow the steps [below](#check-cgroup-version).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check if your distribution uses cgroup v2, refer to [Identify cgroup version on Linux nodes](#check-cgroup-version).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Requirements
```

> To use cgroupv2 the following requirements must be met:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 has the following requirements:
```

* OS distribution enables cgroupv2

> * Linux Kernel version is >= 5.8

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Linux Kernel version is 5.8 or later
```

> * Container runtime supports cgroupv2
>   * [containerd](https://containerd.io/) since 1.4
>   * [cri-o](https://cri-o.io/) since 1.20

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Container runtime supports cgroup v2. For example:
  * [containerd](https://containerd.io/) v1.4 and later
  * [cri-o](https://cri-o.io/) v1.20 and later
```

> * Kubelet and container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The kubelet and the container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver)
```

> ### Linux Distribution cgroupv2 support

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove this heading if you remove the manual list of distros

> Many Linux Distributions have already switched over to use cgroupv2 by default, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a list of Linux distributions that use cgroup v2, refer to the [cgroup v2 documentation](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/docs/cgroup-v2.md)
```

Author: see below

Reviewer 2: Based on your comments, I'm personally ok with keeping the list, but we should still link to the source so that maintainability doesn't rely solely on this page. Maybe after the list items a line that says "This list is derived from the [runc cgroup v2 documentation]\(link)."

Author: Sounds good, added!

<!-- the list should be kept in sync with https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/main/docs/cgroup-v2.md -->
* Container Optimized OS M97
* Ubuntu (since 21.10, 22.04+ recommended)
* Debian GNU/Linux (since Debian 11 buster)
* Fedora (since 31)
* Arch Linux (since April 2021)

> * RHEL and RHEL-like distributions (since 9)

Reviewer 2: This seems like it'll fall out of date very quickly. I suggest that we instead link to the cgroup v2 list

Author: I would prefer we include the list inline since I think this should cover the main most popular distros. I think it would be useful since folks are likely using of these distros and it would be easy to cross check with the docs. 

It might get out of date in terms of other distros, but I don't think it's big concern, since the list already has the most popular ones. Let me know what you think!

To check if your distribution is using cgroupv2, refer to your distribution's
documentation or follow the steps [below](#check-cgroup-version) to verify the

> configuration.

Reviewer 2: If you remove the section heading, remove this paragraph as it exists previously

Author: see above.

> You can also enable cgroupv2 manually on your Linux distribution by modifying

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also enable cgroup v2 manually on your Linux distribution by modifying
```

the kernel boot arguments in the GRUB command line, and setting

> `systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1`, however it's recommended to use a
> distribution that already enables cgroupv2 by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1`. However, the recommended approach is to use a
distribution that enables cgroupv2 by default.
```

> ### Migrating to cgroupv2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Migrating to cgroup v2 {#migrating-cgroupv2}
```

> To migrate to cgroupv2, update to a newer kernel version that enables cgroupv2
> by default, ensure your container runtime supports cgroupv2, and configure
> kubelet and container runtime are configured to use the [systemd cgroup
> driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes#systemd-cgroup-driver).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To migrate to cgroup v2, ensure that you meet the [requirements]\(#requirements), then upgrade
to a kernel version that enables cgroup v2 by default.
```

> Kubelet will automatically detect that the OS is running on cgroupv2 and will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The kubelet automatically detects that the OS is running on cgroup v2 and
```

> perform accordingly, no additional configuration is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
performs accordingly with no additional configuration required.
```

There should not be any noticeable difference in the user experience when
switching to cgroup v2, unless users are accessing the cgroup file system
directly, either on the node or from within the containers.

> Cgroup V2 uses a new API as compared to cgroup V1, so if there are any
> applications that directly access the cgroup file system, they need to be
> updated to newer versions that support cgroupv2. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cgroup v2 uses a newer API than cgroup v1, so if there are any
applications that directly access the cgroup file system, they need to be
updated to newer versions that support cgroupv2. For example:
```
newer or "different API"

Author: replaced with different.

> * Some third party monitoring and security agents may be dependent on cgroup filesystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Some third-party monitoring and security agents may depend on the cgroup filesystem.
```

>  Update them to the latest versions that support cgroupv2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Update these agents to versions that support cgroup v2.
```

> * If you are running [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a
>  daemonset for monitoring pods and containers, update it to latest version (v0.45.0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you run [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) as a stand-alone
 DaemonSet for monitoring pods and containers, update it to the latest version.
```

I'd prefer a version number "0.45.0 or later"

Author: Done, added

> * If you use JDK (Java workload), prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you use JDK, prefer to use JDK 11.0.16 and later or JDK 15
```

 and later, which [fully support

>  cgroupv2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 cgroup v2](https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8230305)
```

> ## Identifying cgroup version used on Linux Nodes  {#check-cgroup-version}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Identify the cgroup version on Linux Nodes  {#check-cgroup-version}
```

> The cgroup version is dependent on the Linux distribution being used and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cgroup version depends on on the Linux distribution being used and the
```

default cgroup version configured on the OS. To check which cgroup version your

> OS Distro is using, you can run the `stat -fc %T /sys/fs/cgroup/` command on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
distribution uses, run the `stat -fc %T /sys/fs/cgroup/` command on
```

> the node and check if the output is `cgroup2fs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the node:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: Separate the command code block from the output code block

<command block>

For cgroup v2, the output is `cgroup2fs`. For cgroup v1, the output is `tmpfs`.

Author: Done, let me know what you think.

Reviewer 2: LGTM but remove the `$`

Author: Done
